6,4,

While the article portrays a significant crime - the murder of a toddler Caylee, it mainly emphasizes the procedural aspects of the case and the unusual events around Casey Anthony's arrest, not so much on the impact of the crime on the victims (6/10). Similarly, while the article mentions suspicious activities of Casey and some evidence, there is not so much emphasis on the perpetrator's motives or intentions. Hence the lesser rating for maliciousness (4/10).

VAN SUSTEREN: There is breaking news out of Florida tonight. Casey Anthony, the mother of that missing toddler Caylee, has been arrested, and she has been indicted with the murder of her child.

Caylee has not been seen since the middle of June and was reported missing by her grandmother a month later on July 15. Joining us live is WOSL reporter Shannon Butler.

Shannon, what went down today?

SHANNON BUTLER, REPORTER, WOSL: It would not be the Casey Anthony case if I did not start out by saying that something strange happened today.

But right after that indictment was handed down, Cindy Anthony, Casey's mother, put her in her SUV and they drove off. Then they parked underneath a bridge somewhere in Orlando where there was another SUV waiting for Casey Anthony, which turned out to be her bail bondsman.

The bail bondsman took off down the road. Shortly after that the FBI and the Sheriff's office did a traffic stop and took Casey Anthony into custody.

Jose Biaz, Casey Anthony's attorney said this should not be a surprise to anyone. I told the state attorney that this was going to happen, and I said I was going to turn her in. But tonight the sheriff's office said that was not the case. We went and picked her up and arrested her.

VAN SUSTEREN: Shannon, has the state's attorney given any idea as to what the evidence is against this mother? She certainly has not spoken. Everybody is enormously suspicious of her, in fact I think probably virtually everybody. But do we know what is that they intend to build their case with?

BUTLER: You know the grand jury hearings are sealed and secret to us. But we know some of the evidence that was made public long before the jury heard it. There was a stain in the back of the truck that has gone in for testing. They have some kind of DNA off that.

There was also a hair that is believed to be Caylee's. What they were trying to do with those test was figure out if Caylee was dead or alive.

And of course we have that decomposition, that smell inside the trunk of that white Pontiac that the cadaver dogs smelled in the backyard in the Anthony home and in that trunk, and that those samples went to the body farm that said in fact there was a decomposing body in the trunk.

But as for what pushed this grand jury to file something like those murder charges, we still do not know yet.

VAN SUSTEREN: The mother Cindy has often times spoken to the press after some incident involving her daughter. Has she spoken since her daughter was indicted and taken into custody?

BUTLER: She has not gone public and said much yet-obviously a very difficult night for that family. But Cindy was the last person to be with her before she went into custody case aside from her bail bondsman.

At least George Anthony, today, he testified in front of the grand jury today about her daughter and the smell in the trunk. And he said this is very difficult for him to do.

And Cindy Anthony still has that belief, saying that this is just a political ploy by the state attorney who is up for election and next month, and that Caylee is still alive and there are sightings of her. And, really, Casey's mother is still holding onto that.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, Shannon.