3,2,

The article focuses more on the family dynamics and the upcoming court case, rather than the impact of the crime on the victims (3/10). The article does suggest that the alleged perpetrator could potentially be guilty, but does not delve into her motives or whether or not she intended to cause harm (2/10).

VAN SUSTEREN: There is news tonight in the Casey Anthony murder case. The toddler's grandmother Cindy is apparently very angry at somebody, and she is not being shy about it.

Some new emails have surfaced, reportedly from Cindy, in which she tells a woman she is not invited to Caylee's funeral. Cindy also says very matter of factly if whether or not she thinks her daughter Casey is a killer.

WOFL reporter Holly Bristow joins us with more. Holly, first of all, what's with these emails?

HOLLY BRISTOW, REPORTER, WOFL: These are emails that were sent between Lois Peters and Cindy Anthony. I will tell you (INAUDIBLE) stopped by Lois Peters house trying to get a hold of these emails.

She said she would send them right over. He never got them, went back. The granddaughter answered the door and said she was having some high blood pressure issues because she had been getting death threats. She will send them tomorrow.

But she did confirm that everything in the emails that we have seen online have been true. It has basically been an exchange, and we do not know exactly where this began, but somewhere in there Cindy did say, "By the way, you are not going to be invited to Caylee's funeral."

At which point this woman fired back an email basically saying "I don't want to be anywhere around a person who condones their daughter killing their granddaughter," at which point Cindy Anthony fired back "My daughter did not kill her daughter. She loved her deeply, and it will be proven in court that Casey did not kill Caylee."

Greta, I do not know if you know the history behind all of this, but this Lois Peters granddaughter actually was the person that organized, not a memorial, but a candlelight vigil for Caylee not too long after she was reported missing.

Now, when Casey got out of jail, this little girl and Casey were kind of email buddies. They sent the emails back and forth, and also some letters by snail mail. Casey had made here some sort of bracelet.

At some point in time there was a falling out, and ever since then there has been this bitter battle between this little girls grandmother and Cindy Anthony. And, obviously, there was a fiery email exchange this week.

And that's pretty much where things stand at this point-Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: And as an aside, not being invited to the funeral, there is not even a funeral at this point scheduled because they are still testing. Is that right, Holly?

BRISTOW: That's right. The defense does sill have possession of Caylee's remains. We were hoping to find out today when the Anthony family would be at least finding out when they'd be able to get possession of Caylee's remains so that they could move forward and plan that private memorial that they are planning on hosting, as well as the public one that they are planning on having for the community.

But at this point, still no word and when they are actually going to get their hands on Caylee's remains, so no funeral arrangements quite yet.

VAN SUSTEREN: Holly, thank you. We'll probably see you tomorrow night. Thank you, Holly.

BRISTOW: Thank you, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Casey Anthony's defense team has added another forensic expert. How many do they have, and why the new one? Forensic pathologist Dr. Michael Baden joins us.

Dr. Baden, it seems like every night a new forensic expert is added to the defense team. Who is this newest one?

DR. MICHAEL BADEN, FORENSIC PATHOLOGIST: The newest one is a very well regarded forensic anthropologist from Ontario, Canada, who is a fellow at the American Academy of Forensic Sciences, which is the leading forensics science organization in this country.

And it appears that they did mention that that Marcell Fiero and Kathy Reichs are also experts for the defense, and Kathy Reichs is a forensic anthropologist. So there are at least two forensic anthropologists.

And these people undoubtedly will not only examine the body, but also determine how long the body was at the place where the body was found. Combining the anthropology and an insect doctor, the entomologist, and the botanist, they might be able to answer the question of how long the body was in the bag at the site where it was found.

VAN SUSTEREN: I don't have Pam Bondi or Jeff Brown here, but I should say that if I were the prosecution, I would certainly wonder why the defense needs so many experts, because they are not going to call everyone. I would want to find out, and if they disagree to scale it back for the defense.

This is getting a little bit unwieldy. But Jose Baez is a smart guy, so maybe there is a reason.

BADEN: It depends on what the evidence is. Remember, investigation of a potential murderer is a team effort. The prosecution--

VAN SUSTEREN: I agree, but -- I agree, but I worry when they sort of double up on things. I will ask Jose Baez the next time I talk to him, and I agree that this is a very serious case and they may need lots of experts. It's just that they double up. That's my only question.

I will take the last word on that one Dr. Baden, because I have to go, because we have a big interview coming up.

President Bush goes "On the Record." You may have seen the president interviewed lately, but not like this. You are going somewhere you have never been, so do not go away.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(NEWS BREAK)

END