8,6,

The article portrays the crime as quite harmful by focusing on the impact on the victim. The victim's actions post-crime such as going to a rape treatment center helps in emphasizing the consequent harm she faced (8/10).

While the article states that the alleged crime happened inside Brown's house and involved his friend, there's a bit limited information on Brown's malicious intent. However, his alleged instruction to his female guests to consume a pill presents a level of intent to potentially harm, although the exact motive remains unclear (6/10).

American singer, Chris Brown, and several members of his entourage are being sued by a woman who alleges that she was the victim of sexual battery, assault and gender violence at a party at the rapper's home.

According to a lawsuit filed on her behalf by attorney Gloria Allred in Los Angeles County Superior Court, the woman, who is listed only as Jane Doe, alleges that Brown's friend Lowell Grissom Jr. (Young Lo), raped her twice at Brown's home in February 2017.

Brown's attorney, Mark Geragos, denied the allegations in an interview with TMZ, adding that Doe originally demanded $17 million from the singer.

'In another era, we might've called this a shakedown. Chris didn't do anything and they know Chris didn't do anything. Other than using his name so that she could have a press conference, I don't understand why he's dragged into anything,' he said.

According to the lawsuit, after attending a Brown concert at a club, Doe went to an after party at a music studio, during which her cell phone was confiscated. Grissom Jr. allegedly refused to return the phone and told her that the group was moving to Brown's home. Doe claims she went, hoping to retrieve her phone there.

At the house, according to the lawsuit, the group began consuming alcohol and drugs, and Doe claims that Brown gave each female guest a pill and instructed them to take it to have a 'good time'. She refused, according to court papers. Doe claims that after that, she was repeatedly assaulted. After she was able to extricate herself from Brown's home, she said she went to a rape treatment center and reported her claims to the police, according to the suit.