7,8,

The article depicts the harmfulness of the crime by highlighting the fact that one person was killed and dozens were injured due to Field's actions, giving it a harmfullness rating of 7/10. While the article does mention the suffering of the victims slightly, it does not go into much detail on the impact of the victims. 

The article ascribes substantial malicious intent to the perpetrator by detailing the premeditated and hate-filled nature of his actions, leading to a rating of 8/10 for maliciousness. Moreover, his crime is linked to a white nationalist rally, which strengthens the impression of the hate crime as an act borne out of racial animus.

FILE - This undated file photo provided by the Albemarle-Charlottesville Regional Jail shows James Alex Fields Jr. Fields, sentenced to life in prison on federal hate crime charges for slamming his car into anti-racism protesters during a white nationalist rally in Virginia is set to be sentenced on state murder and wounding charges. Fields will be sentenced Monday, July 15, 2019, for killing one person and injuring dozens during the "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville on Aug. 12, 2017 (Albemarle-Charlottesville Regional Jail via AP, File)

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) ” A man sentenced to life in prison on federal hate crime charges for slamming his car into anti-racism protesters during a white nationalist rally in Virginia is set to be sentenced on state murder and wounding charges.

James Alex Fields Jr. will be sentenced Monday for killing one person and injuring dozens during the "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville on Aug. 12, 2017.

A jury has recommended a sentence of life, plus 419 years. Judge Richard Moore is allowed to go lower than the jury's recommendation, but can't go higher.

Last month, Fields, of Maumee, Ohio, received a life sentence on 29 federal hate crime charges.

People who were hurt and the family of the woman killed, Heather Heyer, are expected to make victim impact statements during Monday's hearing.