7,4,

The article describes the crime as highly harmful as it discusses the disappearance and murder of a pregnant woman, Laci Peterson, whose body and unborn baby were found washed up on the shores of San Francisco Bay (7/10). However, it does not place a strong emphasis on the maliciousness of the perpetrator, Scott Peterson; while he is implicated in the crime, the article does not delve deeply into his motivations, intentions or personal characteristics (4/10). The media coverage and societal response to the incident are featured more prominently.

JOHN MCCHESNEY: In the media world Scott Peterson was a nobody before December of 2002. Fromhis hometown of Modesto, he drove around California's Great Basin peddlingagricultural chemicals. Then his pregnant wife Laci disappeared on ChristmasEve, and four months later the remains of her body and baby washed up on theshores of San Francisco Bay. They were found a couple of miles from wherehusband Scott says he went fishing on the day of Laci's disappearance. He wassoon charged with their murder. In the months that followed, the Petersons'faces became familiar to millions of Americans.

(SOUNDBITE OF GENERATORS)

MCCHESNEY: Now the trial has been moved from Modesto to the San Mateo CountyCourthouse in Redwood City, just south of San Francisco. Jury selection hasbeen under way for several weeks, and the plaza in front of the courthouse isstudded with television cameras, and a city block is jammed with satellitetrucks powered by roaring generators. Bronwyn Hogan is with the San MateoCounty Sheriff's Department.

BRONWYN HOGAN: San Mateo County hasnever seen anything like this. At this point we've credentialed about 400representatives of the media.

MCCHESNEY: Some segments of the media are acting as if they've never seenanything like this either. The cable networks have been all over the story. Asearch of CNN's Web site showed over 500 stories since Laci Petersondisappeared. But the cable folks are not the only ones offering intensivecoverage. Andrew Tyndall, the editor of the online Tyndall Report, trackscoverage by network news programs, and here's what he found about the threenetworks' morning programs.

ANDREW TYNDALL: In the year 2003, apart from Iraq,it was the most newsworthy domestic development.

MCCHESNEY: Tyndall adds his name to those who say they've never seen anythinglike it.

TYNDALL: It's completely astonishing. The whole phenomenon defies any logic.

MCCHESNEY: Well, not entirely. The town of Modesto was primed for the Petersoncase. Modesto had already been the vortex of two nationally publicized cases ofdisappearance and homicide. In 1999 three female tourists disappeared inYosemite National Park and were later found murdered. Modesto became the mediacenter for coverage of that crime. Afterward, families of the victims set up anon-profit organization in Modesto, the Sund/Carrington Fund, to publicizemissing persons cases. Then in 2002, Chandra Levy, who was having an affairwith Congressman Gary Condit, went missing. Both were from Modesto, and thecase attracted relentless national coverage. The staff of the Sund/CarringtonFund went into action and learned how to maneuver in the media world. Again,Andrew Tyndall.

TYNDALL: They can interact with bookers at these television programs tomake it accessible for them to go on television. They actually coach thesepeople how to respond to the questions of Katie Couric or Diane Sawyer orwhoever.

MCCHESNEY: The Sund/Carrington Fund didn't respond to NPR's request for aninterview. A spokesperson said the fund was bound by a judge's gag order. Backin 2002 television jumped on the Christmas Eve disappearance. And moved by theloss of a pretty, pregnant resident, Modesto turned out hundreds of people tosearch for Laci Peterson. Film at 11. Then the other necessary ingredient tomake this a full-blown media circus emerged: sex. Scott Peterson, it turnedout, had been having an affair with a massage therapist. A televised feudbetween the parents of Scott and Laci broke out. And before Laci's body wasfound, Scott showed up on the "Good Morning America" show facing Diane Sawyer.

(SOUNDBITE OF "GOOD MORNING AMERICA")

DIANE SAWYER: I think everybody sitting at home wants the answer to thesame question. Did you murder your wife?

SCOTT PETERSON: No, no. It's just--and I had absolutely nothing to do withher disappearance. And you use the word `murder,' and right now everyone'slooking for a body, and that is the hardest thing because that is not apossible resolution for us.

MCCHESNEY: "Good Morning America's" producer didn't return our call. But VictorNeufeld, producer of CBS' "Early Show," did. He says the Laci Peterson case hasall the necessary ingredients for a great story.

VICTOR NEUFELD: It connects on many differentlevels. It's about parenting and love and romance, and it's that wonderfulphoto of Laci Peterson and that wonderful smile. And it's a mystery whathappened, extraordinary things happening to ordinary people. It's what WilliamShakespeare based a lot of his writings on.

MCCHESNEY: Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence inJournalism, offers some other reasons for the story's appeal. Like a soapopera, he says, it's easy for the audience to drop in and out of the lengthycoverage. And more importantly, he says, this kind of story is cheap.

TOM ROSENSTIEL: If you canfind one story that you can dine out on, in effect, it's very cost-effective ata time when network news divisions are being cut back, correspondents are down30 percent, bureaus are down by half. This is an easy story not only to cover,but you can cover it for a very long time.

MCCHESNEY: While the nearly ubiquitous coverage of Laci Peterson'sdisappearance on cable and network morning shows may have reassured herparents, it brought resentment and pain to others. Take Modesto's Donna Raley,for example. Her 36-year-old daughter Dena disappeared in October of 1999 andhas never been found. Raley points out that Dena's husband had a history ofdomestic violence, and she's bitter about the attention lavished on ChandraLevy and Laci Peterson.

DONNA RALEY: Well, I would be lying if I said Ididn't have a problem with it because, you know, you keep saying, `What is itabout these other people that make them more valuable than my child? What is itthat made Chandra more important than Dena? What is it that made Laci moreimportant than Dena?'

MCCHESNEY: According to Raley, all that media attention lights a fire underpolice departments, who otherwise can let missing person cases slide for years,partly because there are so many of them, 34,000 in California alone in 2001.

RALEY: When the media is hounding, `What do you mean? Where is he? Whatis'--then the police department has--they're held accountable, I guess is agood way of putting it.

MCCHESNEY: Or take Salvadoran immigrant Evelyn Hernandez, whose case bears aneerie resemblance to Laci Peterson's. Seven months pregnant, she disappearedwith her five-year-old son in May of last year. Her torso, clad in maternityclothes, washed up on the shore of San Francisco Bay two months later. Her sonhas never been found. Local television did a few stories when her body wasdiscovered, but the coverage ended quickly. Nobody expects that to happen withthe Peterson trial. Jury selection alone will go on for several weeks, and thenthe trial will go on for five or six months. John McChesney, NPR News, SanFrancisco.

NORRIS: This is NPR, National Public Radio.