7,8,

The article portrays moderate harm caused by the crime, attributing direct financial losses and market instability to Wesley Colwell's actions (7/10). 

The article strongly emphasizes the malicious intent of the perpetrator. It describes a "wide-ranging scheme to defraud" involving multiple deceitful tactics like misusing reserve accounts, masking losses, and improperly accounting for transactions. It implies that Colwell intentionally manipulated the company's earnings to portray a false financial status (8/10).

WASHINGTON- The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday it charged the former chief accounting officer of Enron North America with securities fraud and he agreed to pay $500,000 (U.S.) in a settlement.

Wesley Colwell, without admitting or denying wrongdoing, agreed to be barred from serving as officer or director of a public company and to pay $200,000 in penalties and $300,000 in disgorgement, the SEC said.

"As part of this settlement, Colwell will continue to co-operate with on-going investigations into Enron Corp. by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice Enron Task Force," the SEC said.

Enron North America was a unit of Enron, once the seventh-largest U.S. company. Its bankruptcy in late 2001 was the first in a series of corporate scandals that rocked U.S. markets. The company's downfall is still under investigation.

The SEC accused Colwell and others of taking part in "a wide-ranging scheme to defraud by manipulating Enron's publicly reported earnings through a variety of devices designed to produce materially false and misleading financial results."

The scheme, it said, included misusing reserve accounts, concealing losses, inflating asset values and improperly accounting for transactions.

For example, the SEC said, in 2000 Colwell and others deferred more than $400 million in profits into reserve accounts within Enron North America. Then in early 2001, it said, Colwell and others used the reserve accounts "to mask over $1 billion in losses associated with Enron's retail energy business, Enron Energy Services."