5,7,

The harm portrayed by the article to the crime is rated at a 5 out of 10. The description of the crime focuses primarily on the actions of Kenneth Lay and the charges he is facing, but there is little elaboration on the impact of Enron's collapse on its victims such as the employees or investors. It also doesn't emphasize harm through adjectives or adverbs, and therefore isn't as harmful as it potentially could be.

The article attributes malicious intent to the level of 7 out of 10. It describes how Enron was hiding billions of dollars in debt and inflating profits, indicating a high level of deceit and manipulation on part of Lay and other executives. It also points out Lay's association with powerful political figures which could imply an abuse of power for personal gain. Furthermore, the article's discussion of the subsequent lawsuits suggests a systemic level of corruption. However, the direct intent of Lay to cause harm isn't explicitly stated but rather implied. Thus, the portrayal of malicious intent is substantial but not maximum.

The US Securities and Exchange Commission will today file civil fraud charges against former Enron chairman and chief executive Kenneth Lay to add to the criminal charges already laid.

Lay says he will turn himself into the police today but insists he is innocent.

"I have been advised that I have been indicted. I will surrender in the morning," he said.

"I have done nothing wrong and the indictment is not justified."

There are no details of the criminal charges Lay is facing.

Houston-based Enron was the seventh-largest publicly-owned firm in the US when it collapsed in 2001 after hiding billions of dollars in debt and inflating profits. Lay is the latest in a string of Enron executives to be charged in the affair and his indictment follows the breakthrough by prosecutors who made a deal with former chief financial officer Andrew Fastow.

He pleaded guilty in January and has been co-operating with prosecutors.

That has led to charges against Lay's hand-picked successor, Jeff Skilling, who unexpectedly quit in August 2001, six months after becoming chief executive.

He and former chief accountant Rick Causey deny dozens of counts of insider trading, fraud and lying on Enron financial statements.

Prosecutors contend Skilling and Causey knew Fastow ran partnerships that helped Enron hide debt and inflate profits and both secretly promised Fastow his partnerships wouldn't lose money in deals with Enron.

Lay is expected to face similar charges.

The Enron affair was followed by a wave of scandals across corporate America, many resulting in bankruptcy and still working their way through the courts.

Lay's indictment could also have political ramifications. He is a close friend of President Bush. Bush, on the campaign trail yesterday, walked away and refused to answer questions put to him about Lay's indictment.

Enron was very much Lay's baby. As head of then Houston Natural Gas in 1985, he created the merger that formed Enron, using his close connections to Bush and his father, the former president, to deregulate natural gas markets.

That deregulation paved the way for the freewheeling electricity trading of the 1990s -- a market that Enron's collapse and the California power crisis of 2000-2001 destroyed.

Lay said recently that his personal fortune once stood at $400 million (UKpound 217 million), but had dropped below $20 million because most of his holdings were in now worthless Enron stock.