6.5,7,

The article does touch upon the negative financial impact that the fraudulent actions had on the customers of Wells Fargo, highlighting that the scandal resulted in $185 million in fines and at least $2.5 million in refunds to customers who paid unnecessary fees (6.5/10). In terms of malicious intent, the article implies that these fraudulent accounts were created to inflate sales bonuses and that the misconduct was conducted knowingly, mentioning fired employees and showing the reluctance of the company's CEO to act against senior executives who might have been involved (7/10).

20--WASHINGTON -- Wells Fargo's CEO John Stumpf faced calls for his resignation and possible criminal prosecution from U.S. Senators Tuesday over the creation of 2 million fake customer accounts that improperly padded employees' sales bonuses.

Stumpf, a Minnesota native who rose to be one of the country's highest paid bankers, has refused to resign in the wake of the scandal, which resulted in $185 million in fines, at least $2.5 million in refunds to customers who paid unnecessary fees, and a 9 percent drop in share price in a week.

Wells Fargo announced policy changes ahead of Stumpf's testimony before the Senate Banking Committee that eliminated "all product sales goals in retail banking."

The company has fired 5,300 employees involved in the scam.

None of that tempered the anger of the executive's Capitol Hill inquisitors.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) called for Stumpf to resign and to be investigated criminally.

Ranking minority member Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) called what Wells Fargo did "fraud." "This was fraud you did not find," Brown told Stumpf.

Stumpf acknowledged that Wells Fargo had violated the trust of some customers. But he refused to say what happened was fraud. He denied that strategies pushing as many as eight accounts for a single customer created an atmosphere that encouraged the creation of the unauthorized accounts.

He said that Wells Fargo did not disclose problems with the unauthorized accounts to shareholders in securities filings because they were not considered "a material financial event."

What caused Stumpf the most trouble was his refusal to publicly call for clawbacks of compensation to Carrie Tolstedt, the senior executive who headed the sales department where the violations occurred. Tolstedt retired from Wells Fargo this summer with a separation package reportedly worth more than $100 million.

The fact that Tolstedt was not fired and that she received so much money as she left the company caused committee chairman Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) to ask Stumpf to tell the "American public" what corporate accountability should look like.

Stumpf could not say exactly when he first learned of the unauthorized account scam.

The Los Angeles Times brought the Wells Fargo scam to light in 2013 based on whistleblower complaints, and the Los Angeles City Attorney took on the case. The U.S. Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB) entered the case.

Wells Fargo conducted an internal analysis of sales practices that revealed that employees had opened more than 2 million unauthorized deposit and credit card accounts since 2011.

Stumpf sent account holders an e-mail apology Sept. 14, six days after the CFPB announced the charges and settlement.

"Last week's news did not reflect Wells Fargo at its best," Stumpf said.

Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) likened the language of the e-mail to the "Sgt. Schultz approach," harking back to the character from the "Hogan's Heroes" TV comedy famous for saying "I know nothing. I see nothing."

The banking committee homed in on what it considered a flawed corporate culture at Wells Fargo, which was described by Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) as "toxic." Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) read to Stumpf correspondence from a Wells Fargo manager who Menendez said was fired for refusing to participate in the creation of unauthorized accounts and for reporting the practice up the chain of command.

Menendez called the problem at Wells Fargo not a few bad apples but a rotten orchard. He said blaming low level employees for the problem was "despicable."

Menendez compared the salary of personal bankers being pushed to create multiple accounts -- roughly $35,000 a year -- with senior executives like Stumpf who made $19.3 million in 2015.

Senators grilled Stumpf for more than two hours after he read a prepared statement emphasizing the small number of employees involved in the scandal and announcing that the company will extend refunds for aggrieved customers to the years 2009 and 2010, as well as from 2011 on.

Wells Fargo now seeks a customer confirmation within an hour of the creation of a new deposit or credit account, as well as a customer signature before a credit report is accessed, Stumpf.

Much of what Stumpf offered as corrective actions were dismissed by committee members as too little too late.

"This is not nearly what I had hoped you would come with," Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) told Stumpf.