7,7,

The article does show a significant amount of harm caused by the crime, especially on the victims, the people and institutions who had invested their money with Madoff (7/10). However, the article hardly uses any adjectives or adverbs to emphasize this harm, limiting its harmfullness rating somewhat. 

The article does attribute considerable malicious intent to Madoff, showcasing his intention and knowledge of his fraudulent actions (7/10). However, the article does not directly mention any selfish motives like personal wealth gain or revenge, only implying them, which limits the maliciousness rating.

RENEE MONTAGNE: This is Morning Edition from NPR News. Good morning, I'm Renee Montagne.Bernard Madoff was known as a Wall Street investment manager with a goldentouch. He brought in enormous sums from people and institutions, andconsistently delivered double-digit returns, even in the toughest times. NowMadoff has been arrested and charged with a massive fraud. Federal prosecutorssay he ran a giant Ponzi scheme and that he lost tens of billions of dollars ofhis investors' money. NPR's Jim Zarroli joins us now to talk more about it.Good morning, Jim.

JIM ZARROLI: Good morning, Renee.

MONTAGNE: So we've been hearing about this now for days, but tell us more aboutthe man. How was he able to get his hands on so much money to begin with?

ZARROLI: Well, he was a respected, venerable figure on Wall Street. He had beenchairman of the NASDAQ stock exchange. He headed a firm that - a trading firmthat bore his name. He also took money from people and invested it. He met alot of customers through country clubs and charities and in Palm Beach and NewYork. And he did very well. And that kind of success breeds success. Peopleheard about the gains he was making, and they started coming to him. It wasprestigious to invest with him.

MONTAGNE: Talk to us about some of the people who invested with Bernard Madoff.

ZARROLI: Well, they include some well-known names. The owner of the New YorkMets, Fred Wilpon. The former owner of the Philadelphia Eagles. New JerseySenator Lautenberg said over the weekend that money from his family'scharitable fund was invested with Madoff. And there were some lesser-knownnames. NPR interviewed Barbara Flood over the weekend. She's a stylist wholives in New York. She was introduced to Madoff by an acquaintance. And eventhough she didn't have a lot of money, he agreed to take her on. Here shedescribed what it was like to be one of his investors.

BARBARA FLOOD: You could never talk directly to BernieMadoff. He was not available, even to friends. I mean, even to me, he was notavailable. And you'd get a statement, and you couldn't read the statement. Andnobody could understand what the statement said.

(SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER)

FLOOD: But after trying to figure out apples and oranges, you know, myaccountant would say, well, the thing is he's always making money. And alwaysmaking money sounded very good to all of us.

ZARROLI: And what she says really gets at one of the problems here. There wasan emperor-who-has-no-clothes aspect to this case. And everyone was wondering,how can Bernie Madoff make so much money? But no one really thought to look toofar beneath the surface because, you know, after all he was Bernie Madoff. Hehad to have his methods.

MONTAGNE: Now, we've been reading about some, say, nonprofits who have losteverything and been forced to close. Certainly a lot of big institutionalinvestors also gave Madoff money to manage. Who are they?

ZARROLI: Yeah. As you say, some charities. The Robert I. Lappin Foundation,which funds money for young Jewish people to visit Israel, over the weekend itput out a statement on its Web site saying it's basically had to terminate itsstaff and shut down. Town of Fairfield, Connecticut. But also some big banks -BNP Paribas, the French bank. Some hedge funds. It's not clear how muchinvestments were lost, but it's clearly, you know, a very large part of whatthey invested with Madoff.

MONTAGNE: Well, it sounds like from the investor we just heard from, thesecrecy surrounded his firm raised some eyebrows. How much did federalregulators actually know about what Bernard Madoff was doing?

ZARROLI: Well, the SEC was warned as far back as 1999 by a securities industryexecutive that Madoff's returns were too good to be true. It's not clear howthey followed up. It's not really even clear how much jurisdiction the SEC hadbecause this was sort of operated as a hedge fund, and they don't regulatehedge funds.

MONTAGNE: Jim, thanks very much.

ZARROLI: You're welcome, Renee.

MONTAGNE: NPR's Jim Zarroli.