6.5,7,

The article moderately emphasizes the harm done to Madoff's investors, detailing that one had lost all her savings and that many victims are unsure whether they will ever recover their investments (6.5/10). The article portrays Madoff's actions as intentional and deceptive, mentioning how he has not always cooperated with investigators and how there is speculation that he may have hidden away some of the money. There is also suggestion that there might have been others involved or aware as well (7/10).

ROBERT SIEGEL: From NPR News, this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I'm Robert Siegel.

MICHELE NORRIS: People in the courtroom applauded when the judge ordered Madoff jailed. NPR'sJim Zarroli was there.

JIM ZARROLI: Outside the courthouse, some of Madoff's investors stood in the bright, coldsunlight and talked about what had happened. Brian Felsen came fromMinneapolis representing his family, who'd lost a lot of money in Madoff'sfirm. He wouldn't say how much, but Felsen seemed resigned to the fact thatmuch of the money was probably gone.

NORRIS: It's such a heartbreaking situation for everybody that it'shard to be satisfied, but he is now where he deserves to be. He should havebeen there a long time ago, and hopefully it will begin the grieving processfor people, to know that he is going to be held accountable for his actions.

ZARROLI: Many of Madoff's victims remain convinced that he has squirreled awaysome of the money he made over the years. They point to reports that his wife,Ruth, withdrew $15 million from an account at Madoff's firm in the days beforehis arrest. Sharon Lissauer was near tears as she explained to reporters thatshe'd lost all her money to Madoff.

NORRIS: I put all my savings in, stupidly, and - because I trustedhim so much and, I mean, I just wish that he would divulge where some of hishidden assets were to make things a little better for the victims.

ZARROLI: But just how much money Madoff had, where it went, and how much of itcan be recovered is something the bankruptcy court is still sifting through.Jeffrey Servin is a Philadelphia attorney who came to the hearing on behalf ofsome clients. He pointed out that Madoff has not always cooperated with federalinvestigators, and he could well be concealing some assets.

NORRIS: Somebody who's been able to do something likethis for this long a period of time and this much detail, probably thought thedownside through very well, too. Do I think there's money somewhere hidden?Yeah. Are we ever gonna find it? Who knows.

ZARROLI: Another question that a lot of investors are asking is how Madoffcould possibly have carried out such a big fraud by himself. Madoff stressed inhis statement that the fraud was limited to the investment advisory arm of hisfirm, and that the broker dealer business operated by his sons, among others,had nothing to do with it. But U.S. officials said today that they are stillinvestigating the case, leaving open the possibility that one of Madoff'semployees or relatives could be in the government's sights. Jim Zarroli, NPRNews, New York.