7.5,6.5,

The article describes a fairly high level of harm done to victims, indicating that many lost their life savings and there is a significant dispute over the recovery of lost funds, indicating a level of financial catastrophe for the victims (7.5/10). The maliciousness of Bernie Madoff's actions is somewhat emphasized by noting he was found guilty of 'duping' investors, but the reasons or motives behind his actions aren't heavily expanded on in the article. His actions do seem to have a level of consideration and planning based on the nature of his scheme which suggests maliciousness (6.5/10).

Nearly half the victims of Bernie Madoff's Ponzi investment scheme will get their money back after trustees announced a payout of at least $1.5 billion. Irving Picard, the trustee, has recouped about $11 billion of the $18 billion invested in the funds run by Madoff but the distribution of money to victims has been slowed by legal challenges. Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in jail after being found guilty three years ago of duping investors, many of who lost their life savings.

Mr Picard has so far paid only $335 million to Madoff investors and filed a request yesterday to the US bankruptcy court for permission to distribute a further $1.5 billion to $3 billion.

The $3 billion figure assumes that investors get no interest for the money that they invested in the Madoff funds — a possibility that has infuriated many of the victims.

They are instead seeking a 9 per cent interest rate on their investments, which would cut the amount that could be paid out to cover losses to $1.5 billion.

Mr Picard has offered a compromise of 3 per cent interest, which would enable him to repay $2.4 billion of losses. The dispute is due to be settled by the bankruptcy court.

David Sheehan, chief counsel to the trustee, said: "These arguments [for a higher interest rate] are specious at best. The law does not provide for interest or inflationary adjustments and no basis in common law exists either."

Mr Picard won a significant battle last month when the US Supreme Court refused to hear a complaint brought by investors who wanted to be compensated for the amount that they were told was in their Madoff accounts. This would have increased the losses to about $65 billion but Mr Picard argued that only initial investments into the funds should be compensated, not theoretical gains. The $1.5 billion to $3 billion payout announced yesterday will be funded largely by the $7.2 billion that Mr Picard recovered from Jeffry Picower, one of the Madoff investors to have been on the winning side of the Ponzi scheme.