4,6

The harm portrayed in the article was moderate (4/10). The article does detail the financial loss by the victims of the fraud, and the fact that a high sum of restitution needs to be paid; however, it lacks detailed individual stories of affected victims or uses of strong adjectives to emphasize the harm caused. Besides, the majority of victims were wealthy investors and companies, which generally causes less emotional impact than individual victims suffering personal damage, and there were no lives lost or physically harmed.

The level of malicious intent portrayed was slightly above average (6/10). The article suggests that the crime was perpetrated intentionally, and that Holmes and Balwani were aware of their actions, as evidenced by Holmes being "convicted of fraud" and Balwani being "convicted of defrauding investors and patients". It also points towards a stronger sense of malicious intent by mentioning an interview where Holmes spoke of creating a character while running Theranos, suggesting she was putting on a deceitful act. Further, the crime was executed in pursuit of wealth accumulation and maintaining reputation. Yet, the article doesn't delve deeply into their selfish motives or portray them as particularly malicious characters, refraining from using strong negative language or describing their personal gains in detail.

The Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes and her former top executive have been ordered to pay $452 million in restitution to victims of the bloodtesting start-up's fraud.

A court also rejected a bid by Holmes, who was convicted of fraud last year and sentenced to 11 years and 3 months in prison, to stay out of jail while appealing the ruling.

Holmes and Ramesh "Sunny" Balwani, who was president and chief operating officer at Theranos, have been ordered to pay hundreds of millions of dollars to investors and institutions.

This $452 million restitution bill includes $125 million to Rupert Murdoch, executive chairman of News Corp, ultimate owner of The Times and The

Sunday Times. Holmes and Balwani are jointly liable for the sum, according to an order signed by US District Judge Edward Davila.

A lawyer for Holmes did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday. Jeffrey Coopersmith, representing Balwani, said: "We respectfully disagree with the district court's restitution order, but even more fundamentally, the guilty verdict on which the restitution order stands is the product of an unfair trial rife with constitutional and other errors."

It is not clear whether Holmes — once the youngest-ever self-made female billionaire, with a paper fortune of $4.5 billion at the height of her company's rise — will ever pay the restitution in full.

Following Theranos' collapse, the US government said last year that her "modest assets" appeared to be outweighed by $450,000 loans to cover a settlement with the US markets watchdog, and liability for legal fees of more than $30 million. The value of assets held by Balwani is also unclear.

In guidance for victims, the US Department of Justice says it is "rare" that defendants are able to fully pay the entire amount owed.

Holmes founded Theranos in Silicon Valley in 2003. It promised to revolutionise healthcare with technology that it said required just a few drops of blood to conduct dozens of medical tests. Investors ploughed hundreds of millions of dollars into the firm, which at its peak was valued at $9 billion.

However, it closed in 2018 following questions over the capability of its technology, the reality of its operations and the reliability of its test results. Holmes, 39, was convicted of defrauding investors in January last year. At a separate trial, Balwani, her former boyfriend, 57, was convicted of defrauding investors and patients and sentenced to 12 years and 11 months in prison; he started serving this sentence last month.

Lawyers for Holmes, initially scheduled to report to prison on April 27, had asked an appeals court to pause her sentence on April 25. Davila yesterday ordered her to report to prison to begin her sentence on May 30.

Holmes recently gave her first interview in seven years to The New York Times, saying she had "created" a character while running Theranos to be taken seriously and planned to continue working on healthcare-related inventions behind bars. "I still dream about being able to contribute in that space," she told the paper.