7, 9,

The article gives a detailed account of the crime and encompasses the impact it had on the investors who were duped due to false claims (7/10). The crime in discussion, portrayed as a 'white collar' crime, has been deceitfully planned to mislead the investors for personal financial gain. Elizabeth Holmes knowingly made false claims about the effectiveness of her healthcare technology, showing a high degree of malicious intent (9/10).

FORMER TECH BILLIONAIRE CONVICTED

EVA PILGRIM (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) Well, now to the sentencing of Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes. Once a rising star in the tech startup world now convicted criminal facing 11 years in prison for defrauding investors. ABC's Elizabeth Schulze has more from Washington. Good morning to you, Elizabeth.

ELIZABETH SCHULZE (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) Eva, good morning. This sentence from a federal judge marks the culmination of a year's long saga that was the dramatic downfall of Elizabeth Holmes.

REPORTER (FEMALE) Will you be making a statement today, Elizabeth?

ELIZABETH SCHULZE (ABC NEWS) (Voiceover) This morning, one-time billionaire and Silicon Valley rising star, Elizabeth Holmes is facing more than 11 years behind bars for misleading investors about her failed blood testing startup Theranos. The 38-year-old who's pregnant with her second child addressing the court in tears Friday saying "I regret my failings with every cell of my body." Reading from notes, Holmes adding, "Every day for the past years I have felt deep pain for what people went through because I failed them."

ELIZABETH HOLMES (FOUNDER OF THERANOS) We will change our lives and our world.

ELIZABETH SCHULZE (ABC NEWS) (Voiceover) Holmes promised technology that would transform health care with just a few drops of blood. The hype attracted big investors, ballooning Theranos' evaluation to $9 billion in 2014. But then Holmes' claims turned out to be far from true. In January, she was convicted of four counts of criminal fraud and conspiracy. Federal prosecutors were seeking a 15-year prison sentence, calling it one of the most substantial white collar offenses in Silicon Valley history, but Holmes' attorneys made the case for just 18 months or house arrest. As part of her plea for a more lenient sentence, Holmes submitting 130 letters of support, including one from New Jersey Senator Cory Booker.

ELIZABETH SCHULZE (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) The judge ordered Holmes to report to prison in April. She hasn't confirmed her due date, but that would likely be after her baby is born. She is expected to appeal the sentence. Whit.

WHIT JOHNSON (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) Elizabeth, thank you.