7,8,

The article emphasizes the economic harm caused by the WorldCom scandal rather heavily, mentioning amounts of billions that have been affected due to fraudulent accounting, which implies significant economical harm to investors and possibly to employees as well (7/10). The article doesn't go into much detail about specific malicious intent of individual perpetrators, but by highlighting that the fraud was coordinated by several executives and resulted in the biggest accounting scandal in U.S. history, it implies a high degree of calculated malfeasance (8/10).

The telecommunications company, which is in bankruptcy protection, is preparing to revise its past financial results yet again, this time by $2 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, quoting unidentified sources.

WorldCom officials were expected to disclose the new findings in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today, the Journal said. WorldCom spokesperson Julie Moore would not comment. The company indicated earlier this summer it planned a restatement.

WorldCom, which owns the United States' Number 2 long distance carrier MCI, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on July 21 after the company reported $3.8 billion in bogus accounting. That figure was later revised to $7.1 billion.

The Journal said that while the exact breakdown of the potential $2 billion addition isn't yet known, some of the revision may involve writedowns of assets. An unspecified amount also could stem from improper accounting for a partial stake WorldCom held in a foreign company, the Journal said.

WorldCom announced earlier that it might write off $50.6 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets when it restates its finances to adjust for the accounting problems.

Five WorldCom executives are accused of being co-conspirators in the accounting scandal, the biggest in U.S. history. Federal prosecutors recently said they might level new charges and indict new defendants in the case. The company faces civil fraud charges by the SEC.

"One can't help but be blown away by the magnitude of this malfeasance," said Patrick Comack, an analyst with Guzman and Co. in Miami. "I'm not surprised they are finding more fraudulent activity but I'm certainly surprised by the size of it."

WorldCom's standing "continues to get crushed by these ongoing revelations," Comack said. "It's going to be tough for them to come back."

WorldCom, which transmits roughly half of the world's Internet traffic, aims to emerge from creditor protection by the middle of 2003.

Last month, a New York grand jury indicted Scott Sullivan, WorldCom's former chief financial officer, and Buford Yates, the former director of general accounting. The company is searching for a new chief executive.