6,7

The harm portrayed by this crime in the article is focused on the financial aspect that affected the company and the shareholders (6/10). The article does not give a detailed description of the impact of the crime on the victims.

The article portrays the accused, Bernard Ebbers, as possibly having malicious intent (7/10). The article alleges that he could be an instigator of a multi-billion dollar fraud, which would require cunning planning and a high degree of intent. However, it also provides a counter-narrative, maintaining that his key mistake was delegating to the wrong person, and not necessarily intrinsic maliciousness.

Jurors will convene today to pick through the conflicting images of Bernard Ebbers that lawyers drew in their closing arguments yesterday: a homespun hero bamboozled by his deputy or the instigator of a multibillion-dollar fraud.

After a four-hour closing argument by Ebbers' lawyer and a 90-minute rebuttal by a federal prosecutor, presiding U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones told jurors she will have them begin deliberations after reading them instructions this morning.

In a theatrical appeal starting yesterday morning, defence lawyer Reid Weingarten described Ebbers as "some tall, lanky motel guy who originated from Canada," moved to Mississippi, started a motel business, then built WorldCom into the second-largest U.S. long-distance telecommunications carrier.

"This man has committed no fraud," Weingarten said in his closing argument in federal court in Manhattan.

Ebbers' crucial mistake, Weingarten said, was delegating financial responsibility to the wrong man - former chief financial officer Scott Sullivan, who has pleaded guilty in the case. But ignorance of Sullivan's wrongdoing isn't criminal, Weingarten added.

Ebbers, 63, is on trial on charges of conspiracy, securities fraud and making false filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. If convicted, he could spend the rest of his life behind bars.

The government's case against Ebbers pivots on several days of testimony by Sullivan.

Meanwhile, following the lead of Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. yesterday became the second large U.S. bank to settle claims stemming from a class-action lawsuit by former shareholders of WorldCom.

Bank of America agreed to pay $460.5 million (U.S.) to settle the case. Last year, Citigroup Inc., the largest U.S. financial institution, paid $2.58 billion to settle its share of the suit.

from the star's wire services

Copyright (c) 2005 Toronto Star, All Rights Reserved