4,2,

The article describes the potential harm of the drug Avandia as possible increases to heart attack risks, especially for specific patients. It is mentioned that sales of the drug have decreased and that a warning will be placed on the package, indicating awareness of potential harm (4/10). However, the article portrays very low malicious intent as it includes the drug maker's agreement to add the warning and to conduct long-term studies for assessment of risks. This showcases that the company was not fully aware of the danger and is willing to correct the situation, suggesting a lack of selfish motives, hence a low score of 2/10.

WASHINGTON (AP) GlaxoSmithKline will add new warnings about heart attack risks associated with its top-selling diabetes treatment, Avandia, government health officials said Wednesday.

The British drug maker agreed to add the warning, outlined in a black box, after months of discussions with the Food and Drug Administration. The new language tells patients who are more at risk of heart attack to talk with a doctor before taking Avandia.

The agency's internal safety experts were split over whether to keep the drug on the market, Deputy Commissioner Janet Woodcock said during a conference call. However, FDA said it could not justify pulling the drug since there was ``inconclusive'' evidence that the drug is more dangerous than comparable treatments.

The new warning alerts doctors to the conflicting data on Avandia: safety problems were significant when compared with patients taking a dummy pill, but not with patients taking rival drugs.

``It's important to understand that patients with diabetes need therapies,'' said John Jenkins, who heads FDA's office of new drugs. ``As we look at these data we really need to understand the risks and benefits of this drug compared with other available therapies.''

The new warning on Avandia could drive patients toward competing products, most notably Takeda Pharmaceuticals' Actos, the only other drug in the same class. However, FDA officials said rival diabetes drugs aren't necessarily less risky, and their labels will have to say so.

Other diabetes treatments include metformin, which is marketed in generic form by Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd., Mylan Inc. and many other companies.

FDA said GlaxoSmithKline has agreed to conduct a long-term study to definitively answer whether Avandia's risks are unique, but final results from that study won't be available until 2014.

Cowen & Co. analyst Steve Scala wrote in a note that the FDA warning, ``is as good as GlaxoSmithKline could have hoped ... given the array of possible outcomes in this tough situation.'' Still, Cowen said he expects sales of the drug to fall to $500 million by 2012, or more than 75 percent from last year.

Negative publicity surrounding Avandia has plagued GlaxoSmithKline sales since May, when an article in the New England Journal of Medicine first suggested the drug increases heart risks in diabetes patients. More than 7 million people have taken the drug in the last seven years.

Sales of the drug were down 38 percent in the most recent quarter compared to 2006. The drug was the company's third-best-selling product last year, with revenue of $2.3 billion.