6.5,5,

The article does a fair job of portraying the harm caused by the crime (6.5/10). It focuses on emotional impact by mentioning the victim's widow and son, who are suing due to his death from a suspected side effect of the medication. The harm to the victim layer is further layered by giving his name, age, and the date of his death. However, it does not quite go into deeper details on the broader impacts of the crime or uses strong adjectives or adverbs to emphasize the harm. 

The article portrays a moderate level of malicious intent (5/10). It suggests that the company may have known about the dangers of Avandia and continued selling it anyway. The quote from the family's lawyer and the mention of the scientific analysis that was published on the day the victim died both contribute to this portrayal. Yet, it also includes the company's defense and doesn't have enough concrete evidence to strongly imply wilful harm or clear selfish motives such as gaining wealth or revenge.

DALLAS (AP) The widow and son of a Beaumont man are suing the maker of the popular diabetes drug Avandia, alleging it contributed to the man's death from a heart attack.

Larry Alan Stanford, 60, died May 21, the same day a scientific analysis was published in the New England Journal of Medicine saying that Avandia was linked to a greater risk of heart attack and possibly death.

His widow, Peggie Stanford, and son, Ryan Stanford, filed the lawsuit against GlaxoSmithKline PLC on Tuesday in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.

Stanford had taken Avandamet, a form of Avandia mixed with another diabetes drug, since early 2005.

``I believe the evidence will show the company knew there were problems with Avandia, but decided to keep on selling it to Larry and others,'' attorney Stephen Drinnon, who represents the Stanfords, said in a news release Wednesday.

A spokeswoman for GlaxoSmithKline said the company will ``vigorously defend our medicine.''

``We stand firmly behind the safety of our product,'' spokeswoman Alice Hunt said in a statement. She said an examination of the company's record will show that it ``thoroughly studied the safety and effectiveness of Avandia.''

The analysis in the New England Journal of Medicine that concluded Avandia could raise patients' risk of heart attack by more than 40 percent prompted some congressional Democrats to call for increased regulation of the pharmaceutical industry at a hearing this month.

The Food and Drug Administration commissioner said at the hearing that the FDA will require tougher warnings about heart failure on Avandia.