7, 1,

The article explores the potential risks associated with a widespread diabetes drug, Avandia. This contributes to a degree of harm being portrayed, reflected in the action of taking a drug perceived to be lifesaving, yet at an unknown dangerous cost. It sheds light on the risks i.e. heart attack, stroke, and even death possibility associated with it (7/10). The topic of intent is not heavily debated. The only reference to any form of maliciousness is the mention of an "industry-sponsored study" possibly not being "interpreted correctly", but it is suggested as a potentially honest mistake or misunderstanding, not a deliberate act to mislead or tamper with the data (1/10).

BIANNA GOLODRYGA (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) All right, Yunji, and thank you. We now want to turn to medical news and two, big drug stories. Johnson & Johnson is recalling more of its over-the-counter drugs. And the FDA is once again raising questions about the safety of Avandia, a diabetes drug taken by nearly two million people. Here to talk about these stories, "GMA" medical contributor, Dr. Marie Savard. Thanks so much for joining us. I want to begin with Avandia. There have been questions about its safety and whether it can lead to heart attacks for years now, going back to 2007. Why is the FDA reopening this case now?

GRAPHICS: AVANDIA'S DANGERS?

GRAPHICS: DIABETES DRUG SAFETY QUESTIONED

DOCTOR MARIE SAVARD (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) That's true. But, Bianna, so many people are taking this drug thinking that they're lowering their risk of heart attack, which is the most common complication of diabetes.

DOCTOR MARIE SAVARD (ABC NEWS) (Voiceover) They're looking at it now because the FDA themselves have not fully agreed on the safety issues. There's a lot of new data. And there's been some question of whether this most recent industry-sponsored study is also not really interpreted correctly.

BIANNA GOLODRYGA (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) And we should note that heart failure has long been a recognized problem that, that has gone with Avandia. The question is, is Avandia a higher risk than other diabetes drugs, yes?

DOCTOR MARIE SAVARD (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) That's right. Heart failure – related to leg fluid retention has been well-known risk already. But there have been 12 studies over the past three years that have shown, many of them, that there could be an increased risk of heart attack, stroke and even death. So we really need to look at this. And that's what the FDA is doing this week.

GRAPHICS: STATEMENT BY GLAXO SMITHKLINE

BIANNA GOLODRYGA (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) Well Avandia's maker, Glaxo Smithkline, released a statement in response to these new documents released by the FDA. And here the statement says, 'Since 2007, we have seen results from six controlled clinical trials looking at the cardiovascular safety of Avandia. And together, they show that this medicine does not increase the overall risk of heart attack, stroke or death." Yet, you mentioned the other studies by the FDA, some of them are conflicting. What do people at home that are taking this drug, relying on it, what should they do? And what should their doctors do?

DOCTOR MARIE SAVARD (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) Common sense. First of all, sometimes clinical studies are not accurate. It's how they're interpreted, how big they are. There can be a lot of issues, a large observational study just this month, reported a significant concerns, especially for older people. I think people should take caution, talk to their doctors about it. I'm - really concerned about this drug.

BIANNA GOLODRYGA (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) Well the FDA's findings will be released Wednesday, I believe. What do you expect them to say and conclude this time around?

DOCTOR MARIE SAVARD (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera) I think they need to conclude that clinical safety, or concerns about clinical safety, should take the place of certainty around clinical studies. Patient safety first.