8,7,

The article emphasizes the harmfulness the defective ignition switches have caused to many victims. It highlights the death toll of a hundred people and at least a hundred and eighty-four injured. By focusing on the story of one victim, Jean Averill, the article adds a personal touch making the harmfulness even more heart-wrenching. (8/10)

The malicious intent comes from GM's action of knowing about the problem for more than a decade but only ordered a recall last year. The fact that "GM never told the family" about their loved one's death being linked to the defect and that her name was redacted in the publicly released report shows the intention to hide the truth. However, the article does not delve deeper into specific individuals responsible or their possible motivations, leading to a slightly lower rating. (7/10)

Today, the death toll from defective ignition switches in General Motors` vehicles reached one hundred with at least one hundred and eighty-four others injured. GM knew about this problem for more than a decade but ordered the recall only last year. Jeff Glor met the family of one of the earliest victims.

(Begin VT)

JEFF GLOR: December of 2003, eighty-one-year-old Jean Averill was driving a 2004 Saturn Ion on this street in Connecticut when her car left the road and struck a tree. The airbag did not deploy; she was knocked unconscious and died hours later at the hospital.

MARK AVERILL: I couldn`t have asked for a better mother.

JEFF GLOR: For her sons, Mark and Sam Averill, the cause of her death had been a mystery.

MARK AVERILL: We had no idea that it was the fault of the car. The car had, you know, less than five hundred miles on it, it was a brand new car.

JEFF GLOR: Early last year, General Motors announced the recalls of over 2.6 million vehicles admitting a heavy key chain or sudden jarring could shut the car off, disabling power steering, power brakes, and safety systems like airbags. At the time they admitted thirteen deaths were linked to the defect. We now know Jean Averill was the first death--a footnote in GM`s three-hundred-and-fifteen-page report detailing the ignition switch problem. GM never told the family and her name was redacted in the version released to the public. A reporter uncovered the identity and contacted the Averills.

MARK AVERILL: They haven`t sent us an apology, we`re sorry, nothing.

JEFF GLOR: The family has been offered a payment from GM`s compensation fund but they say the amount is not enough punishment for the company`s decade long cover-up.

SAM AVERILL: We-- I think just feel that, you know, they were in-- did really wrong and they should be penalized. They should be-- people should go to jail.

(End VT)

JEFF GLOR: GM says their outreach has been extensive and fair. The Averills have until July nineteenth to accept. If they don`t, they could pursue legal action but given a federal judge`s ruling that the new GM formed after the company`s 2009 bankruptcy is not responsible for previous accidents, Scott, pursuing the old GM could be challenging.

SCOTT PELLEY: Jeff Glor on the story for us from the beginning. Jeff, thanks very much.

END