4,2,

The article doesn't focus much on the harm caused by the faulty ignition switches, only mentioning it in passing and providing a statistic (4/10). 
The article doesn't seem to ascribe much malicious intent to the representatives of General Motors, as it talks more about their handling of the crisis and efforts to improve than any harmful motives (2/10).

DETROIT, Jan. 12, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- The crisis that erupted over faulty ignition switches in 2014 changed General Motors' culture more than its bankruptcy five years earlier did, GM product development chief Mark Reuss said.

Reuss – GM's executive vice president, global product development, purchasing and supply chain – spoke last night at the 2017 Automotive News World Congress.

During an on-stage discussion with Automotive News Publisher Jason Stein, Reuss said when the ignition switch defect – a decade-old problem linked to more than 100 fatalities – surfaced just weeks into Mary Barra's tenure as CEO, it sent a powerful message across the automaker's workforce.

"We used that to really change the way the company behaved, and also to change what was OK and wasn't OK, and what we wanted to be," Reuss said. "It was an unbelievably painful process."

To determine the extent of the problem and fix it transparently, Reuss said he had to enter unfamiliar territory to take on the role of a detective. Among the improvements that the crisis produced was GM's Speak Up for Safety program, which encourages workers to report potential problems they discover, and to do it anonymously if they prefer. Fewer than 5 percent of the reports submitted through the program have been anonymous, Reuss said.

"For me that's a big proof point that people really want the right thing," he said.

Reuss acknowledged widespread skepticism that he and Barra, as second-generation GM lifers, could lead the company in a new direction, saying those doubts serve as "incredible motivation to prove people wrong."

In a wide-ranging discussion, Reuss also said:

About Automotive NewsSince 1925, Automotive News has been the primary source for news happening among automotive retailers, suppliers and manufacturers. Distinct from other publications in the field, Automotive News remains a fully subscriber-paid publication, a testament to the value it delivers to the reader. The award-winning weekly print edition, robust website, email newsletters and video broadcasts are backed by a global team of editors and reporters.