8,9,

The article portrays the harmfulness of the crime at a high level (8/10) as it focuses on the impact of the crime that led to terminal cancer for one of the victims, Toni Roberts. It detailed her hopes to spend time with her children and grandchildren and her fear of not meeting her new grandchild because of the resulting illness. Also, the article mentions about 10,000 other lawsuits filed against the company highlighting the broad impacts of the crime. 

The article attributes a high level of malicious intent to the perpetrator, Johnson and Johnson (9/10). It suggests that the company knew about the presence of asbestos in its products as far back as 1957 and not only did they hide this information from the public, they allegedly continued to sell the product knowing the potential harm it could cause. The intent is particularly malicious as the company prioritized their profits over the health and safety of their consumers.

MAN #1 (Instagram/Lalomexpan): Are you guys okay?

MAN #2 (Instagram/Lalomexpan): Yes, I`m all right.

MICHELLE MILLER: Unreal. There were fears that a bomb had gone off in Los Angeles on Friday. It turned out a box truck had exploded on a road packed with rush-hour commuters. The driver and the passenger were not hurt. A propane tank inside the truck exploded. Police are trying to determine exactly why.

ANTHONY MASON: Amazing nobody got hurt in this.

ADRIANA DIAZ: Scary.

ANTHONY MASON: Wow.

ADRIANA DIAZ: One of the companies that suffered the biggest loss on Friday`s route on Wall Street was Johnson and Johnson. The stock plunged more than ten percent. Its worst single day loss in more than fifteen years after a new report claimed the company may have known for decades that its baby powder sometimes contained asbestos which can cause cancer. Jim Axelrod has the story.

(Begin VT)

TONI ROBERTS (Victim/July 13): Essentially my cancer is terminal.

JIM AXELROD: Her name is Toni Roberts.

TONI ROBERTS: I wanted to spend time with my sons. I wanted to spend time with my grandchildren.

JIM AXELROD: She died of ovarian cancer in October. She was sixty-one. Roberts had used Johnson and Johnson`s talcum powder products since she was a teenager and suspected asbestos in the powder had caused her cancer. While talc and asbestos often naturally occur together in the earth, J&J has long since denied the claim that talc could be contaminated with the known carcinogen. But almost ten thousand lawsuits have been filed claiming the product does cause cancer.

PETER BICKS (Courtroom View Network): The question is, is there asbestos in Johnson and Johnson`s products? We believe and have always believed that there isn`t.

JIM AXELROD: But now Reuters has examined documents that reveal the company knew about the presence of small amounts of asbestos in its products as far back as 1957 but did not disclose that to the public. Ted Meadows represents thirteen plaintiffs that claim J&J talc products caused ovarian cancer.

TED MEADOWS (Attorney): And not only have they known about it, they`ve attempted to hide it from the public. And that`s exactly what they have been able to do for decades is hide this from the public.

JIM AXELROD: A jury awarded Toni Roberts and twenty-one other plaintiffs nearly 4.7 billion dollars. But Roberts wasn`t focused on money at the end of her life she was focused on her grandchildren.

TONI ROBERTS (July 13): And I have a new one coming in December and I`m probably not going to have the chance to even get to meet that one.

JIM AXELROD: For CBS THIS MORNING: SATURDAY, this is Jim Axelrod in New York.

(End VT)

MICHELLE MILLER: How do you write this down in a report and then know it`s a problem--

ANTHONY MASON: Mm-Hm.

MICHELLE MILLER: --and not fix it? Not fix it.

ANTHONY MASON: That`s the question, obviously. Goes back to 1957 they say.

All right. It`s an ambitious plan to clear pollution from one of the nation`s busiest waterways. Later, meet the team trying to place a billion oysters at the bottom of New York harbor.

But, first, here`s a look at the weather for your weekend.

(LOCAL WEATHER BREAK)

ADRIAN DIAZ: (AUDIO CUT) --to ground bre-- beef, if you think warnings about food contamination are getting more frequent, well, you`re right. Up next, Atlantic senior writer Derek Thompson on why this looks to be a record-breaking year for these advisories and some insight into the increase.

You`re watching CBS THIS MORNING: SATURDAY.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

END