8,8,

The article emphasizes the harmfulness of the corporate crime through consideration of the broad user base of the product (as implied by the comment on the stock market effects) and the strong emotional impact on victims, it particularly details the sad fate of cancer victim Toni Roberts who used the product since her teenage years and implicates her death is caused by the asbestos in Johnson & Johnson’s baby powder. This article does a good job at showcasing the deadly harms of the cover-up, making the reader feel empathy and fear (8/10). 

As for malicious intent, the article reveals that Johnson & Johnson had knowledge about the presence of harmful asbestos in its products since 1957 and despite nearly five thousand lawsuits and scientific evidence, they kept denying that their product causes cancer and stated that their product is 'safe and asbestos-free', which signifies a persistence in harmful behavior and thus a high degree of maliciousness (8/10).

MARGARET BRENNAN: Well, stocks took another dive today amid concerns of an economic slowdown in China and in Europe. The Dow slid nearly five hundred points. Johnson & Johnson also weighed down that index, falling more than ten percent after it was reported that the company may have known for decades that its baby powder sometimes contained asbestos, which can cause cancer. For more now, Jim Axelrod.

(Begin VT)

TONI ROBERTS (July 13th): Essentially, my-- my cancer is terminal.

JIM AXELROD (Senior National Correspondent): Her name is Toni Roberts.

TONI ROBERTS (July 13th): I wanted to spend time with my sons. I wanted to spend time with my grandchildren.

JIM AXELROD: She died of ovarian cancer in October. She was sixty-one. Roberts had used Johnson & Johnson`s talcum powder products since she was a teenager and suspected asbestos in the powder had caused her cancer. While talc and asbestos often naturally occur together in the earth, J&J has long since denied the claim that talc can be contaminated with a known carcinogen, but almost ten thousand lawsuits have been filed claiming the product does cause cancer.

PETER BICKS (Attorney; June 6, 2018; in court): The question is, is there asbestos in Johnson & Johnson`s products? We believe and have always believed that there isn`t.

JIM AXELROD: But now Reuters has examined documents that reveal the company knew about the presence of small amounts of asbestos in its products as far back as 1957 but did not disclose that to the public. Ted Meadows represents thirteen plaintiffs who claim J&J talc products caused ovarian cancer.

TED MEADOWS: And not only have they known about it, they have attempted to hide it from the public. And that`s exactly what they have been able to do for decades is hide this from the public.

JIM AXELROD: A jury awarded Toni Roberts and twenty-one other plaintiffs nearly 4.7 billion dollars. But Roberts wasn`t focused on money at the end of her life, she was focused on her grandchildren.

TONI ROBERTS (July 13th): And I have a new one coming in December, and I`m probably not going to have the chance to even get to meet that one.

(End VT)

JIM AXELROD: In a statement today, Johnson & Johnson maintained the Reuters article was both false and said its baby powder was safe and free from asbestos. J&J claims testing on more than a hundred thousand shows, quote, "Talc does not cause cancer or asbestos-related disease." Margaret.

MARGARET BRENNAN: Thank you, Jim.

END