6,8,

The article describes the harm caused by the Ford Pinto's malfunction with words like "burst into flames" and "deaths" which indicates a level of damage (6/10). However, it also underscores the seriousness of the situation by naming it as one of the most serious charges ever made against an American corporation, the term "reckless homicide" implies lethal consequences. Yet, the lack of a victim-focused narrative and the emphasis on the legal proceedings rather than the harm caused to the victims slightly reduces the harm portrayal.

The text strongly implies malicious intent by the Ford company with the statement that they knowingly marketed a hazardous product, suggesting awareness and purposefully harmful action on their part (8/10). However, no specific selfish motif was cited directly, reducing the explicitness of the malintent portrayal.

DEARBORN, Mich. — When the American automobile industry turns off its lights this week for its annual Christmas vacation, the midnight oil will continue to burn in at least one makeshift office at the Ford Motor Company.

Inside, James F. Neal, an attorney, and a small team of hired hands, will be sharpening up Ford's strategy for a crucial trial opening early next month. Mr. Neal will be defending the company against one of the most serious legal charges ever made against an American corporation — reckless homicide.

Mr. Neal, a short, stocky, gravelly voiced man from Nashville, Tenn., calls the Ford case a “tough” one. The company is charged by the state of Indiana with three counts of reckless homicide in connection with the deaths in August 1978 of three young Indiana women. The Ford Pinto in which they were riding was hit from the rear and burst into flames. In its simplest form, the state is charging that the company knowingly made and marketed a dangerous product.

Ford is expected to spend close to $1 million for the services of Mr. Neal and his law partner, who were hired as special counsel last spring, as well as a small team of legal researchers organized by Hughes Hubbard & Reed, a prominent New York law firm.



Criticism of the company, and the sinceredesigned Pinto, has often been bitter and the welter of legal questions raised in the Indiana case touches on some delicate areas for business and consumers.

But the country lawyer whose nickname is “Flash” has had other tough cases. He was the Government's chief prosecuting attorney in the rash of court trials that grew out of the Watergate scandal. More than a decade earlier, he earned a place in legal history when he became the first lawyer to successfully prosecute James R. Hoffa, at the time president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

Given that record as public advocate, Mr. Neal's identification with big business in the controversial Pinto case has raised some eyebrows. But in a recent interview at his temporary office here, where the identification plate at the doorway reads “Office of the General Counsel,” Mr. Neal set out to explain his position.

“I think that American industry today is an underdog and there's more to be said for American industry than maybe is being said,” he commented. “I see the case as sort of a microcosm of some of the issues that exist today between some of the consumer advocates and industry. Undoubtedly there's something to be said on both sides. But what I hear more of is from the consumer side. So I'm advocating a position that needs to be advocated.”



Mr. Neal said that he did not want to discuss that “position” in detail, for it will emerge as one of the cornerstones of Ford's defense in State of Indiana v. Ford Motor Company when hearings begin Jan. 7 in Winamac, Ind. But he did say that, among other things, there must be a resolution of what level of government has the responsibility of setting standards for certain manufactured goods in the country.



In 1966, he explained, the Federal Government concluded that it would regulate the automobile industry, and set up the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which defined safety standards.

“Yet, what we're seeing now is that a district attorney of a local area in one state may conclude that he has the power in effect to override those standards and to say that some other standard should be applicable and if that standard is not observed then prosecute criminally if death or injury is involved.

“If a district attorney in Indiana can do that, then it's possible that every district attorney in all of the 50 states can do it,” he said. “Then what has happened to the need for uniformity and certainty that was at least a part of the impetus for the Federal legislation to begin with?”

“I'm not saying that a prosecutor can't prosecute for reckless conduct, that any organization is above the law,” Mr. Neal cautioned. “I am saying that a situation like this raises a lot of questions about who regulates who.”

The case also touches upon some still relatively virgin legal turf, that of a products‐liability case being woven into a criminal case, he noted, a factor with unknown implications.



Mr. Neal and his partner, Aubrey B. Harwell, maintain a small office in downtown Nashville, where in recent years Mr. Neal has spent much of his time defending clients charged with so‐called white‐collar crimes. They range from his successful defense of the Hamilton County Sheriff in Chattanooga, Tenn., on charges of attemping to defraud the Federal Government by taking 50 cents a gallon on moonshine in exchange for keeping quiet about it, to clearing Bronson Ingram, head of the Ingram Corporation, subject of a 34‐count fraud charge.

While Ford staff aides have done all they can to make Mr. Neal and his associates feel at home, there is one small point that bothers them. Mr. Neal apparently prefers the products of Ford's competitor, General Motors. He drives a Cadillac.