7,8,

The article describes the harm caused by the Ford Pinto cars by specifying that they could easily rupture in rear-end crashes and cause fires. Additionally, it references a doctor's research that indicated Ford products, including the Pinto, have shown a significantly greater hazard of fire than any other vehicles, demonstrating the danger posed by these cars (7/10). As for malicious intent, the article explains that Ford knew the Pinto's fuel tank could easily rupture and cause fires, but they ignored these tests due to eagerness to get the subcompact into production. This shows that they knew about the potential harm but decided to proceed for their own benefit, indicating malicious intent (8/10).

DETROIT, Aug. 10 (AP)—A magazine says that the Ford Motor Company sold Pinto cars for six years even though company officials knew that the car's fuel tank could easily rupture in rear‐end crashes and cause fires.

The article by Mark Dowie in Mother Jones, a West Coast publication circulated to 150,000 subscribers, said that the company had been eager to get the subcompact into production in 1970 and, as a result, had ignored tests showing that the car was dangerous.

A Ford official characterized the allegations as distorted. “We are examining in detail the allegations made in this article which contains distortions and halftruths and will comment further when we have completed our analysis of them,” said Herbert L. Misch, vice president for environmental and safety engirieering.

The article said that Ford had modified the 1977 Pintas to meet Federal safety standards it had lobbied against in the past but that every preceding rear‐end crash test made by Ford at more than 25 miles an hour had resulted in a ruptured fuel tank.

Dr. William Fogarty, a civil engineer at the University of Miami who heads an accident analysis test team there, told The Detroit News that his research had indicated that “Ford products, including the Pinto and Mustang, have demonstrated a significantly greater hazard of fire than any other vehicles I've looked at.”

Report on Federal Tests

WASHINGTON, Aug. 10 (UPI)—An official of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said that the agency had tested 40 Pintos, all 1976 models, and had found only one that falled a Government safety standard requiring fuel tanks to have acceptable levels of leakage in crashes at 30 miles an hour.

“There was a measureable fuel leak In excess of the acceptable levl” in th one that failed, the official said and an investigation, still under way, was opened. Since thee, he said, three more ‘76 models have been tested without a repeat of the problem and in none of the cars tested was there a fire.

“It's quite a leap from that to what Mother Jones is talking about,” he said. “We had no reason on the basis of our Investigation or complaints from owners to do anything other than what was done.”

The official said that his agency had investigated some. cases brought to its attention by the Center for Auto Safety but had found that all involved crashes at excessive speed. In any crash above 30 miles an hour, the official said, there is a risk of a fuel tank rupture regardless of the car involved.



Ralph Nader, the consumer activist, said that he would seek a recall of Pintos made before 1977. on the basis of the magazine report.