4,2,

The article does touch on the harm inflicted by the crime, particularly focusing on the Pinto fires and the subsequent public relations disaster it caused for Ford, but it does not delve deep into the human costs of the incident nor detail the actual physical damage these fires caused. There is an emphasis more on the company's reputation rather than the harm caused to individuals, thus harmullness rating is 4/10. 

As for malicious intent, it's even lower as it seems the Pinto fires stemmed from a technical error (an electrical short), not a purposeful act. The company's response was to attempt damage control, not to outrightly lie or deceive the public. There is no indication in the article text that ill-intent or selfish motives were at play, thus maliciousness rating is 2/10.

﻿Ford PR chief hid as Pintos blazed But retiring VP survived calamity to go on to win industry respect during 30 years at carmaker.
When the Ford Pinto caught fire, Tony Fredo had his own solution for extinguishing the public relations nightmare.


"I hid for three days," he said softly the other day near the end of a 30-year career at Ford.


The 66-year-old vice-president of public affairs for Ford Motor Co. of Canada Ltd. always had a knack for candidness in the face of adversity.


"One of the myths of the public relations business is that we can turn bad news into good news," he said in an interview last week. "Well, the fact is we can't."


Fredo formally retires at the end of the year and leaves with a pickup truck full of memories. He also leaves a legacy of fairness and honesty.


Communications specialists at Ford and rival automakers have admired his ability to balance the needs of the company, the media and public for years.


It helped that he worked at a newspaper for 16 years before jumping to Ford, the country's second biggest automaker.


"He was the best media relations man I ever had," said Earl Weichel, who worked at Ford and then headed the communications department at GM of Canada.


No amount of skill could help Fredo in 1979 when the company loaned a Pinto to a news photographer.


Ford's compact Pinto had already gained notoriety for catching on fire in rear-end collisions. There was no collision here.


An electrical short triggered a fire and the stunned photographer started snapping pictures of the idle car. The results made the newspaper's front page.


Jim Hartford, Ford's current public relations manager and a former CBC reporter and producer, said Fredo worked at making staff aware of the role and needs of the media.


"We knew as former journalists what was in the best interests of the company," he said. "On occasion, we didn't tell them (management) what we were doing."


Fredo said at times trouble can make a company better. In the early 1970s, Ford faced a public relations disaster with rusty cars.


It didn't matter that rival automakers had rusty cars. Ford was the target for young advocate Phil Edmonston, who founded the Automobile Protection Association. The subsequent fight led to free repairs for Ford owners and cost the company millions of dollars.


"We were locked in pretty heavy combat, but in the end, it gave birth to the consumer movement," Fredo said. "That was a good thing. To this day, Edmonston has been a friend. We started a dialogue with him and looked into his complaints.


"The rust case made us more consumer conscious. We learned a lesson."


Fredo also gained a reputation as a raconteur among auto journalists. When some writers started hearing the same stories again, he just gave them numbers instead of repeating the same yarn.


"Tell us a story, Tony," one auto reviewer would ask. "No. 27," Fredo would reply.


When Fredo dined with them, he would inevitably hoist a fine bottle of wine and say every vintage is never served before its time. He would then pause for effect and say, "the time has come."


It was hard for anyone to get mad at Fredo, colleagues say.


"He was the opposite of the in-your-face manager," said Hartford, who has worked with Fredo for 17 years.


"He has always been easy going," he said.


Born in Fort Erie, Fredo began studying journalism at Ryerson Polytechnical Institute in 1951, but never completed the program.


He joined the Niagara Falls Review and worked his way up to executive editor.


Fredo, married with five children, thought about moving to a big daily but joined Ford in 1968. He transferred to Ford's parent in Detroit in 1984 before returning to Canadian headquarters as director of public affairs.


Ford appointed him vice president in 1987.


Fredo, who drives both a Taurus and a Lincoln and likes watching baseball, said he has no big hobbies but will pursue one interest: auto consulting.