5,6,

The article provides a thorough review of the Merck company misleading its customers about the safety of its drug, Vioxx, which resulted in customers experiencing heart attacks and strokes. Yet, the harm caused by this drug is significantly underreported. For instance, the article mentions that Vioxx caused an increased risk of heart attacks and strokes, but it does not explore the human impact of these health problems or the scale of those affected. This results in a harmfullness rating of 5 out of 10.

The crime committed by the Merck company is portrayed with a degree of maliciousness, as the drug company was aware that its drug was harmful and not approved for certain treatments, yet continued to market it fraudulently. However, the article does not delve deeply into the company's motivations for doing so, instead focusing more on the details of the legal settlement and the company's legal defenses. Furthermore, Merck is not acknowledging any liability or wrongdoing, implying a lack of remorse or understanding of the severity of their actions. This gives a rating of 6 out of 10 for maliciousness.

NEW YORK (AP) Drugmaker Merck & Co. Inc. said Thursday a federal court accepted its $950 million payment to resolve an investigation into the marketing of its painkiller Vioxx.

The court also accepted Merck's guilty plea to one misdemeanor count of violating marketing laws. The Justice Department said the Whitehouse Station, N.J., company marketed Vioxx as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis without federal approval for almost three years and made false settlements about the cardiovascular safety of Vioxx to increase sales. The drug was taken off the market in September 2004 after evidence showed it doubled the risk of heart attack and stroke.

Merck announced the proposed settlement in November. In January it agreed to settle all the outstanding Vioxx cases in Canada for as much as $37 million.

The settlement was approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. It resolves complaints brought by 43 states and Washington, D.C. Merck is not acknowledging any liability or wrongdoing, and it says the federal government agrees there is no basis to conclude Merck's management was involved in the illegal marketing. Merck is also entering into a corporate integrity agreement with the federal government.

The Food and Drug Administration first approved the painkiller in May 1999, and the Justice Department said the company began illegally promoting Vioxx as a rheumatoid arthritis treatment almost immediately. Companies are not allowed to market drugs for conditions that have not been approved by the FDA.

The Justice Department says the FDA warned Merck about its marketing practices in September 2001. Vioxx was not approved for use in rheumatoid arthritis until April 2002.

The Justice Department said the payment includes a $321.6 million criminal fine and a $628.4 million payment to resolve the marketing inquiry. The federal government will receive $426.4 million from that amount, and $202 million will be distributed to the Medicaid programs of the 43 states and Washington, D.C. Litigation with the other seven states has not been resolved.

Merck won about two-thirds of the Vioxx personal injury lawsuits that went to trial. It settled around 50,000 patient lawsuits in November 2007 for $4.85 billion, which was much less than Wall Street had initially expected.

Shares of Merck fell 10 cents to $38.30 in afternoon trading.