7,8,

The harm to the diamond industry is described in the article, with it being noted that the theft was a significant event that the dealers are shocked by and it affected the whole diamond community in Antwerp, impacting their sense of security and confidence. This is significantly harmful, but the absolute extent of the harm isn't too deeply dwelled upon. (7/10).  
Malicious intent is well implied in the article. The precise details about how the thieves managed to enter a well-secured building, crack the safes and even knew about the documents, strongly suggest that the act was carefully planned and was potentially an inside job. The intentional bypassing of heavy security, and the calculated planning suggest a high degree of malice (8/10).

It's not often that we get to use the word `heist' on this program. Today we have that opportunity, thanks to a brazen theft of diamonds over the weekend in Antwerp, Belgium, the world's gem-trading capital. It's believed to be the biggest gem heist ever in that city. Thieves emptied 123 of 160 safes in the city's Diamond Center. Officials say it will be days before they know the stones' worth. It's estimated to be in the tens of millions of dollars. And joining us now from Antwerp to talk about this crime is Charles Verwaest, who covers the diamond industry for the Flemish newspaper De Standaard.

Mr. Verwaest, I understand that this crime took place in a building that is heavily guarded around the clock, that has video surveillance. What happened?

Mr. CHARLES VERWAEST (De Standaard): Yes, indeed. The crime took place in the Grunberger Building. In Antwerp, you know, we talk about the Diamond Square Mile. One of the biggest buildings there is a lot of polishing activities. This weekend probably in the night of Sunday, people got into the vault and emptied 123 safes.

BLOCK: And how was the crime discovered?

Mr. VERWAEST: Monday morning at 7:00, the caretaker of the building did his security check, and he saw that all the safes were opened, and on the floor he found empty boxes.

BLOCK: And how is it possible that they not only got into the building, but into the vaults?

Mr. VERWAEST: That investigation is still going on. Some sources in the Justice Department say that probably they locked themselves in, then it has to be an inside job, that they knew the code of the principal steel door. And then the safes were placed there 30 years ago, and the thieves knew how to open that type of safe. They knew the weak spot of it.

BLOCK: I understand that the thieves also stole documents that certified that they're not from conflict zones. Are they traceable?

Mr. VERWAEST: At this moment, it's not certain that the documents disappeared. When you talk with diamond dealers, they say that probably all the rough diamonds will go back to Africa and will be injected in the legal circuit in Africa, and then they will get their own documents there, because if you are going to sell them here with the documents that are stolen, then probably it will be noticed.

BLOCK: Mm-hmm. So they'd go on the black market back to Africa and then come back around.

Mr. VERWAEST: The rough stones will go back to Africa. That is expected, yes.

BLOCK: And there were cut stones as well?

Mr. VERWAEST: Yes. Also there were also cut stones and probably they will disappear in black circuit within the jewelry industry, maybe even here in Antwerp.

BLOCK: I imagine this must be the big story in Antwerp this week. What are diamond dealers saying?

Mr. VERWAEST: Well, if you talk about diamonds, then you also talk about the four C's--carat, clarity, color and cut. But there is also another, a fifth C, and that is confidence. The diamond dealers know each other and it's a little world built on confidence, and it's for them not nice to know that people inside their community are dishonest and did this. So it has to be an inside job because they had a lot of information about the security systems, and so it's very bad for the reputation of Antwerp.

BLOCK: Charles Verwaest is covering this week's diamond heist for the Flemish newspaper De Standaard. He spoke with us from Antwerp.