6,7,

The article provides a detailed account of the crime, making it evident that this was a significant robbery, however, the focus is largely on the criminals' methodology rather than the impact on the victims or the bank. The harm to the victims is indirectly mentioned as the loss of a significant amount of money from the bank. (6/10)

The article provides evidence of the forethought and planning involved in the crime, suggesting a high level of malicious intent. However, the emphasis is more on the cunning and resourcefulness of the perpetrators rather than an in-depth examination of their intentions or motives. It is clear that the criminals intended to steal a large amount of money and went to great lengths to execute their plan, pointing to a certain degree of maliciousness. (7/10)

BRASILIA -- Brazilian police have arrested two people in connection

with one of the biggest bank heists in history as Banco Central

said it now believed that $92.6 million was stolen.



After police announced the arrests and the recovery of part of the

money yesterday, the bank said 164.8 million reals ($A92.6 million),

and not 156 million ($A87.9 million), was taken during the weekend

robbery.



The robbery at the Banco Central branch in the northeastern city of

Fortaleza was the second-largest bank heist in the world after

a 1987 robbery in London of $US72 million ($A93.07 million).



Federal police detained the driver of a vehicle transport truck and

the passenger during an operation late yesterday in the southeastern

city of Belo Horizonte, 2500km from Fortaleza.



Police said one million reals were found inside two vehicles that

were among 11 cars loaded on to the truck.



The bank robbers are believed to have bought several cars late on

Saturday in Fortaleza. The car dealer was said to have grown suspicious

and alerted the authorities after the purchasers paid for

the cars in cash.



Authorities believe the robbery took place early on Saturday. Since

the theft was only discovered on Monday, the robbers had a 48-hour

lead on the authorities.



To reach the vault, the robbers -- believed to number 10-20 people

-- dug a tunnel from a fictitious gardening company in a house opposite

the bank in Fortaleza's business district.



The tunnel was four metres below a main road and 80 metres long. The

thieves had to pierce the vault's one-metre-thick iron and cement

floor, and there was no immediate sign of explosives used.



The tunnel, 70 centimetres wide, lined with plastic and lit by electric

lights, was believed to have taken at least three months to

dig, authorities said.



The gang took 3.5 tonnes of used 50-real bills and carried the loot

unnoticed out the front door, which carried a sign for the fictitious

company Grama Sintetica (Synthetic Grass).



The cover allowed them to get rid of the earth they dug without suspicion,

police said.



The robbers spread a white powder all over the house to make it difficult

for police to detect fingerprints.



Authorities are looking into the Gang of the Tattooed, which is linked

to two Sao Paulo robberies last year that used tunnels.