5,6,

The article describes the crime with moderate severity. It mentions the valuables stolen from celebrities' homes and the massive $3 million in recovered property, suggesting a broad impact. However, it does not dwell on the victims' emotional or personal responses, limiting the depiction of harm to a more physical and financial level (5/10).

The article also portrays moderate malicious intent on the part of Alexis Neiers. It mentions her role in the 'bling ring' and her decision to enter a plea deal, implying knowledge and participation in the burglary. However, it doesn't delve into her motivations behind the crime, and there's nothing explicitly implying that she intended to cause substantial harm to the victims beyond financial loss. (6/10).

Reality TV personality Alexis Neiers was sentenced to 180 days in jail Monday for her role in the "bling ring" burglaries of celebrity homes in the Hollywood, California, area.

Neiers, 18, wiped away tears after entering a no-contest plea to a single felony charge of burglarizing the home of actor Orlando Bloom last July.

Without the plea deal, Neiers could have faced six years in prison for the burglary, the prosecutor said.

She also avoids charges on other burglaries tied to the ring, including break-ins at the homes of Lindsay Lohan and Paris Hilton.

Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Peter Espinoza imposed the plea-bargained sentence that included the jail term, three years probation, a two-year suspended prison sentence and restitution to be determined later.

Neiers must start her 180 days in the county jail on June 24, he said.

A Los Angeles police detective testified at a preliminary hearing in December that Neiers was one of four people caught by a security video camera carrying bags out of Bloom's Hollywood Hills home in the early morning hours of July 13.

Property belonging to actresses Lohan and Rachel Bilson was found at Neiers home, the detective said.

More than $3 million in stolen property was recovered from another alleged burglar, police said.

One of the suspects told investigators they used online gossip sites to track where celebrities lived and when they would not be home, according to court documents.