7,6,

The harmfullness of the crime is highlighted through statements discussing the loss of personal items, especially those of sentimental value such as Rachel Bilson's grandmother's jewellery. The article also mentions the fear instilled in the victims by these robberies, adding another layer of emotional distress inflicted upon the victims. There is also mention of the loss of a considerable amount of wealth from the thefts, although the financial impact on the wealthy victims might be less than if the victims were of average means. Thus the harm arising from the crimes is portrayed fairly significantly, but not exceedingly so. (7/10)

As for malicious intent, the crimes were premeditated and targeted, yet there was one incident where the perpetrator took the time to locate and return a puppy that had accidentally been let loose. The article also mentioned that these crimes were fueled by the perpetrator's drug addiction. Considering these points, it appears there is a level of contradiction in terms of the level of malicious intent. On one hand, the perpetrator knew he was causing harm by stealing these high-value goods, but on the other hand his youth, drug addiction, and occasional acts of kindness (like returning the dog) obscure the purity of his malicious intent. (6/10)

The man singled out as the ringleader of the so-called Hollywood Bling Ring has publicly apologised to his celebrity victims Orlando Bloom, Megan Fox and Rachel Bilson after stealing $US3 million-worth of goods from their homes during a 10-month crime spree.

Nick Prugo was part of the gang that targeted the stars' exclusive Hollywood Hills neighbourhood over the course of 2008 and 2009, nabbing designer clothing, jewellery and cash from the celebrities.

Prugo was convicted of felony first degree residential burglary and was sentenced to a year behind bars, while he also underwent rehab treatment for substance abuse.

The youngster's crime drama has been turned into a film by director Sofia Coppola, with Emma Watson in one of the starring roles, and, as the film opens across the world, he has issued heartfelt apologies to a number of his most high-profile victims in the pages of America's Star magazine.

Reaching out to the celebrities, Prugo claims he was young and dumb - and his drug addicition only fuelled his troubles, stating: "I'm truly sorry. I was a teenager at the time and have come a long way.''

During the candid interview, he confesses to robbing Bilson's home five times and reveals the gang made off with priceless jewellery belonging to the actress' grandmother.

"It was so personal, not like an article of clothing. She couldn't replace it. I definitely apologise for the fear I caused her and the loss of a family heirloom,'' Prugo says.

Prugo also reveals they managed to return one of Bloom's Rolex watches to him after selling 10 others from his pricey collection for an estimated $5,000, and he expresses regret for scaring his other victims Lindsay Lohan, Paris Hilton and reality TV star Audrina Patridge.

He also comes clean about a break-in at the home of Fox and her now-husband, Brian Austin Green, admitting they almost lost their new puppy.

He explains, "We let their new puppy out by mistake. I knew there were coyotes (in the area), so I spent the next two hours searching the neighbourhood and put him back. Then, of course, we did steal from them, and I am very sorry for that.''