5,3,

The harmfullness of the crime is moderately portrayed in this article (5/10), since it highlights specific details about the victim's loss (Paris Hilton losing family heirlooms and not being able to replace them, Miranda Kerr's underwear being stolen), and the psychological distress that they went through (such as Paris Hilton still being traumatised by the events).

The malicious intent is slightly shown in this article (3/10), stating that the stealing was part of a larger trend to emulate celebrities and their status (showing a selective method in their theft, specifically targeting and stealing from celebrities for their own gain). However, the article also explains the perpetrators' actions with societal context, slightly lessening the malice that could be attributed to them - attributing their actions more to societal pressure than individual malicious intent.

Miranda Kerr's underwear has reportedly been stolen by a gang of teen thieves.

The former Victoria's Secret model's enviable lingerie collection was specifically targeted by the notorious gang of celebrity-obsessed teen burglars, The Bling Ring.

Nancy Jo Sales, who first exposed the fame-crazed teens in an article, told Vanity Fair : "They wanted to look sexy. Looking sexy in a celebrity's clothes, well that's even sexier.

"Especially Miranda Kerr, who [was] a Victoria's Secret model. The fact that they stole the underwear just seems so weird, but it's not weird when you think about it, because they're growing up at a time when their culture is constantly telling them to be sexy.

"Everything from toys to video games to music to fashion is hypersexualised for girls.

"Stealing their underwear was part of a whole trend to emulate these celebrities. They don't just want expensive underwear; they want Paris Hilton's underwear."

The events have been made into a film by Sofia Coppola and starring Emma Watson called The Bling Ring about the materialistic thieves, who also targeted Lindsay Lohan, Paris Hilton and Megan Fox.

Hilton has a cameo in the film but admits she is still traumatised by what happened.

"They came to my house five times, stole millions of dollars of my things: Birkin bags, family heirlooms, jewellery that was in my family for years, and then they sold it on Venice Beach like a yard sale," she said.

"I didn't get a cent back in insurance money, and I will never be able to replace those things."