7,7,

The article emphasizes both the tangible (potential £60 million worth of gems and cash, tools utilized, high-profile nature etc.) and intangible (descriptions of abrupt arrests, potential fear instilled in unexpected victims upon confrontation etc.) impacts of the crime on the victims and the community. While it does not explicitly delineate the trauma of victims, it implies it through the extents of the loss in wealth (mention of high prices of recovered property). The article's use of adjectives and terms such as "filthy rich," "white British," and "tirelessly and relentlessly" bring a certain gravity to the crime. (Harmfulness: 7/10)

On portraying the malicious intent of the perpetrators, the article provides several hints of their premeditation and underlying intentions. It talks about the complex tools used for the burglary, the two-night raid, and the disguised lives of the alleged perpetrators who lived as second-hand car dealers while being 'filthy rich.' Description of the argument between the father and son (the two convicts) just days before the raid also suggests tension and possible moral conflict related to their crime. However, the article doesn't focus greatly on depicting individual selfish motives and the attackers' personal gains. (Maliciousness: 7/10)

THREE pensioners were dramatically arrested at gunpoint yesterday over the £60million Hatton Garden gems heist.

The trio - including two men in their 70s - were among nine suspects seized during a series of raids across London and Kent. More than 200 officers, many of them armed, swooped on 12 properties in a co-ordinated operation at 10.30am.

All the arrested men are described as 'white British' and they are being held on suspicion of conspiracy to burgle.

Flying Squad officers also recovered a 'significant amount' of jewelry, gems and cash suspected to have been taken during the daring Easter Bank holiday weekend raid. They are confident they have cracked the high-profile case which sparked a wave of criticism after they originally appeared to be caught on the back foot.

A second-hand car dealer and his son were arrested at an imposing £850,000 property in Dartford, Kent.

Brian Reader, 76, was last night being questioned by police alongside son Paul, 50. Another man, 58-year-old plumber Hugh Doyle, was arrested at a £500,000 semi-detached home in Enfield, north London. Last night, police guarded the house, which had been left empty by Mr Doyle's partner Jenny and their young children.

Three other men - aged 74, 67 and 48 - were also held in Enfield. The final three men - aged 59, 58, 43 - were arrested at addresses across London.

A source close to the inquiry said: 'This is a massive result and comes after a huge amount of work behind the scenes.' Reader and his son live in a detached 1930s five-bedroom house hidden behind high walls and trees on a main road in Dartford, Kent. It is the base of their second-hand car dealership, Pentire Cars, which has a website offering 'fantastic savings' and 'competitive prices'. One neighbour described the father and son as 'filthy rich'.

Silvia Castelao, 40, said she saw the pair locked in a 'stand-up row' just two days before police swooped. 'They were shouting and swearing at each other really loudly. I could not believe it because they are supposed to be father and son.

'But whatever the argument was about they were going crazy with each other - with lots of swearing and shouting.' Witnesses described how the pair were led away by police yesterday before forensics teams descended on the property.

Kevin Watson, 56, said: 'It was just after 10 o'clock. About three vans full of police turned up. There were maybe 20 or more officers. They surrounded the property, entered and shouted "Police! Police!". It was quite orderly and peaceful. They brought the younger man out handcuffed and put him in a van. Fifteen minutes later they brought out the older guy who seemed to be struggling a bit health-wise. He was holding his chest.' Several large bags containing high-value property were recovered from one address yesterday and police said they were 'confident' they were jewels stolen during the burglary.

Gold, jewels and cash believed to be worth more than £60 million were stolen from 72 boxes at the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Company last month. The thieves used specialist equipment to drill through a 20-inch concrete wall during a two-night raid over Easter weekend.

Defending the Metropolitan Police as he announced the arrests, Commander Peter Spindler said: 'These detectives have done their utmost to bring justice to the victims of this callous crime. They've worked tirelessly and relentlessly.'