6,7,

The harm portrayed in this crime isn't particularly emphasized in the article. There is certainly some loss indicated with the £13.7million worth of stolen goods, and it mentions it being the largest burglary in British legal history, yet there are no specific details about the impact of this loss on the victims. There is no use of emotionally charged language or wording that emphasizes the damage inflicted on individuals or community. (6/10)

The article gives a detailed account of the preparation and execution of the burglary crime, indicating a high level of planning and malice. There is an emphasis on the calculated nature of the crime, the organization of the gang, and their method of operation (meeting at a pub to discuss their plans), which all indicate a planned intent to harm. However, the motive is largely economic rather than personal or revenge-based. The repeated, similar behavior (previous similar burglary) also points to a degree of malice. (7/10)

THE final suspect in the notorious Hatton Garden jewelry heist committed a 'strikingly similar' burglary at a Bond Street jewellers five years earlier, a court has heard.

Michael Seed, 58, is accused of being one of six men who drilled into the basement of a safe deposit company in Hatton Garden over the Easter weekend of 2015, making off with £13.7million worth of jewelry, precious gems and cash.

Mr Seed is alleged to have been the man nicknamed 'Basil' by the gang and remained at large after his co-conspirators were arrested following the record-breaking burglary.

The raid at the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit company in London's diamond district is believed to be the largest burglary in British legal history. Those behind the heist often met on a Friday night in The Castle pub in Islington, north London, to discuss their plot, as well as in a nearby cafe. Wool-wich Crown Court heard five of the six men who were in the basement at Hatton Garden on the night of the theft - Brian Reader, 79, John Collins, 78, Daniel Jones, 61, Carl Wood, 61, and Terry Perkins, who died last year at the age of 69 - have been convicted of conspiring to carry it out.

Prosecutor Philip Evans QC told the jury the sixth man, known as Basil, was not arrested at the same time and remained at large.

He said: 'The prosecution case is that "Basil" was a nickname and the defendant, Michael Seed, is that man. The prosecution say Seed was involved in the burglary of Hatton Garden and the subsequent laundering of the proceeds.' Mrs Evans said the investigation into some of those involved in the Hatton Garden case revealed that they had also carried out a raid in Bond Street on August Bank Holiday weekend of 2010.

He said the 'strikingly similar burglary' took place at jewelry store called Chatila 'where a group of men broke into display cabinets in the main showroom. The prosecution alleges that this defendant, Mr Seed, was a participant.' The prosecutor said the Hatton Garden and Chatila burglaries were 'two high value burglaries' that were 'conducted by the same teams'.

Jones admitted the Chatila burglary, while Perkins died in prison before he could be tried.

Seed, of Liverpool Road, Islington, north London, denies two charges of conspiracy to commit burglary and one charge of conspiracy to convert or transfer criminal property.

The trial continues.