6,8,

The article discusses the impact of the crime on Harry Winston's Paris boutique, also hinting at potential impact on their reputation. However, it does not focus much on the emotional or personal damage caused to individual victims (6/10). The description of the crime, citing the complexity of hiding the stolen jewelries and the audacious nature of the robbery, portrays the perpetrator as having significant malicious intent. The crime was planned and executed in a very intricate manner, and the suspects were involved in criminal activities elsewhere which indicates malicious intent (8/10).

French investigators have found jewels valued at C18 million ($25 million) hidden in a Paris rain sewer _ part of the spectacular 2008 heist from luxury jeweler Harry Winston's Paris boutique.

Nineteen rings and three sets of earrings _ one pair valued at C14 million ($19.5 million)

_ were dug up from a drain at a house in the working class Paris suburb of Seine-Saint-Denis, police said, confirming a report on Europe-1 radio.

The jewels were hidden in a plastic container set in a cement mould inside the sewer, police said. The house belonged to one of the nine people charged in the heist.

The bold Harry Winston robbery on Dec. 5, 2008, netted the thieves _ some dressed as women and wearing wigs _ gems and bejeweled watches worth up to C85 million ($118.1 million), police said. More recently, police have set the figure at $85 million.

The Harry Winston boutique is on a street off Paris' famed Champs-Elysees Avenue dotted with fashion houses and fashionable cafes. The robbery, carried out while Christmas shoppers strolled outside, was among the most audacious in France in recent memory.

Some stolen rings, necklaces and watches were recovered when police rounded up 25 people in a June 2009 sweep and eventually charged nine of them.

Among those charged was the heist's suspected mastermind, who had been sentenced to 15 years in prison in a drug trafficking case. Police found stolen jewelry and C760,000 ($1.1 million) at this house.

A guard at the Harry Winston boutique put police on the trail of the suspects. When investigators learned that an Israeli was expected in Paris to buy some of the stolen jewels, police moved in to make the arrests. 15:33ET 08-03-11